Connect to 8base and Make a Query (#170)
cobuildlab/cobuildlab-web: src/pages/development-blog/connect-to-8base-and-make-a-query.md

When using 8base, you're project benefits from having:

1. A fully scalable serverless API
2. A managed MySQL Database that's hosted on AWS
3. Ready-to-use app services, like Authentication, Authorization, and File Storage
4. 8base's rock-star team and the Community
5. So, so, so much more!

<https://docs.8base.com/getting-started/getting-started>

## Connect to 8base

### 1. Create an account at 8base

create an account in 8base is easy just go to this [link](https://app.8base.com/) we send you a confirmation email

### 2. Setting up a Workspace

when you create an account 8base give you a free workspace for 30, but if you want to create a new workspace just click on the drop down menu "New workspace". Name it however you want, select the plan you want and you're done.

![new workspace](./media/newworkspace.png)

### 3. Create the Authentication provider

Under the hood, 8base utilizes Auth0 to manage your users' identities and ensure the best security standards.But in this tutorial we will use our own auth0 account

> first we go to [auth0](https://auth0.com/) official page we create an account.We go dashboard and click where it says "CREATE APPLICATION" and follow the steps that tell us

Reviewer: No vamos a usar AUTH0, vamos a usar lo que proveed 8base

Once created our auth0 account we are going to connect it to 8base .in the 8base console we go to Settings then to Authentication and we create a new authenticaicon profile, we fill the form and ready.

![conect auth0](./media/conect-auth0.png)

### 4. The best way to start with 8base for the first time is to go to the 8base [documentation](https://docs.8base.com/getting-started/quick-start) and Clone the Demo Repository. They have on for React and one for Vue

    git clone https://github.com/8base/react-8base-starter-app.git

### 5. Then we go into the project folder and do an npm install

### 6. Setting up the client

    APP_WORKSPACE_ENDPOINT=<workspace_endpoint>
    APP_AUTH_PROFILE_ID=<auth_profile_id>
    APP_AUTH_CLIENT_ID=<auth_client_id>
    APP_AUTH_DOMAIN=<auth_domain>

Look for a 8base-starter-app/client/.env file that contains a template for the required environment variables. Fill in the template with all appropriate values. Each starter app will have a thorough READme.md with instructions on which files are responsible for which functionality. Please read them!

### 7. Run the application with the NPM STAR command

> ## To execute a query

Reviewer: Esta parte necesita mas explicacion, en que archivo hago esto? como creo la tabla?

---
title: Connect to 8base and Make a Query
date: 2019-22-16T01:00:00+00:00
tags:
template: development-post
---

## 8base

**8base** is a Backend-as-a-Service. It lets front-end developers focus more on what they love and backend developers expedite their workflow. As our CEO likes to say, "it's totally awesome!"

When using 8base, you're project benefits from having:

1. A fully scalable serverless API
2. A managed MySQL Database that's hosted on AWS
3. Ready-to-use app services, like Authentication, Authorization, and File Storage
4. 8base's rock-star team and the Community
5. So, so, so much more!

<https://docs.8base.com/getting-started/getting-started>

## Connect to 8base

> ### 1. First we go to the 8base [documentation](https://docs.8base.com/getting-started/quick-start) and Clone the Demo Repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. The best way to start with 8base for the first time is to go to the 8base [documentation](https://docs.8base.com/getting-started/quick-start) and Clone the Demo Repository. They have on for React and one for Vue
```

    git clone https://github.com/8base/react-8base-starter-app.git

### 2. Then we go into the project folder and do an npm install

> ### 3. Configuración del cliente

Reviewer: esto esta en español

>     APP_WORKSPACE_ENDPOINT=<workspace_endpoint>

Reviewer: toda esta data viene de los pasos que te pedi que incluyeras:

1. Abrir la cuenta
2. Crear un workspace
3. Crear un provvedor de autenticacion

Reviewer: Y tienes que mostrar pantallas sobre donde encontrar esa informacion
